We'll fight with him tonight.
It may not be.
You give him then the advantage.
Not a whit.
Why say you so? Looks he not for supply?
So do we.
His is certain; ours is doubtful.
Good cousin, be advised; stir not tonight.
Do not, my lord.
You do not counsel well.
You speak it out of fear and cold heart.
Do me no slander, Douglas.
By my life, and I dare well maintain it with my life,
if well-respected honor prick me on,
I hold as little counsel with weak fear as you, my lord,
or any Scot that this day lives.
Let it be seen tomorrow in the battle which of us fears.
Yea, or tonight.
Content.
Tonight, say I.
Come, come. It may not be.
I do wonder much, being men of such great leading as you are,
that you foresee not what impediments
drag back our expedition.
Certain horse of my cousin Vernon's
are not yet come up.
Your uncle Worcester's horse came but today.
And now their pride and mettle is asleep,
their courage with hard labor tame and dull,
that not a horse is half the half of himself.
So are the horses of the enemy in general
journey-bated and brought low.
The better part of ours are full of rest.
The number of the king exceedeth ours.
For God's sake, cousin, stay till all come in.
I come with gracious offers from the king
if you vouchsafe me hearing and respect.
Welcome, Sir Walter Blunt.
And would to God you were of our determination.
Some of us love you well and even though some envy
your great deservings and good name,
because you're not of our quality
but stand against us like an enemy.
And God defend but still I should stand so,
so long as out of limit and true rule
you stand against anointed majesty.
But to my charge.
The king hath sent to know the nature of your griefs
and whereupon you conjure from the breast of civil peace
such bold hostility,
teaching his duteous land audacious cruelty.
If that the king have any way your just deserts forgot,
which he confesseth to be manifold,
he bids you name your griefs.
And with all speed, you shall have your desires
with interest and pardon absolute for yourself
and these herein misled by your suggestion.
The king is kind, and well we know the king knows
at what time to promise, when to pay.
My father and my uncle and myself did give him
that same royalty he wears.
And when he was not six and twenty strong,
sick in the world's regard, wretched and low,
a poor unminded outlaw sneaking home,
my father gave him welcome to the shore.
And when he heard him swear and vow to God
he came but to be Duke of Lancaster,
to sue his livery and beg his peace
with tears of innocency and terms of zeal,
my father, in kind heart and pity moved,
swore him assistance and perform'd it too.
And when the lords and barons of the realm
perceived Northumberland did lean to him,
the more and less came in with cap and knee,
met him in boroughs, cities, villages,
attended him on bridges, stood in lanes,
laid gifts before him, proffer'd him their oaths,
gave him their heirs, as pages follow'd him
even at the heels in golden multitudes.
He presently,as greatness knows itself,
steps me a little higher than his vow made to my father,
while his blood was poor,
upon the naked shore at Ravenspurgh
and now, forsooth, takes on him to reform
some certain edicts and some strait decrees
that lie too heavy on the commonwealth,
cries out upon abuses,
seems to weep over his country's wrongs,
and by this face, this seeming brow of justice,
did he win the hearts of all that he did angle for.
Proceeded further; cuts me off the heads
of all the favorites that the absent king
in deputation left behind him here
while he was personal in the Irish wars.
Tut!
I came not to hear this.
Then to the point.
In short time after, he deposed the king;
soon after that, deprived him of his life;
and, in the neck of that, task'd the whole state.
To make that worse, suffer'd his kinsman Mortimer,
who is, if every owner were well placed,
indeed his king, to be engaged in Wales,
there without ransom to lie forfeited;
disgraced me in my happy victories;
sought to entrap me by intelligence;
rated mine uncle from the council-board;
in rage, dismiss'd my father from the court;
broke oath on oath; committed wrong on wrong;
and, in conclusion,
drove us to seek out this head of safety
and withal to pry into his title,
the which we find too indirect for long continuance.
Shall I return this answer to the king?
Not so, Sir Walter.
We'll withdraw a while.
Go to the king.
Let there be impawn'd some surety for a safe return again,
and in the morning earl
shall mine uncle bring him our purposes.
And so farewell.
I would you would accept of grace and love.
And may be so we shall.
Pray God you do.
Hie, good Sir Michael.
Bear this sealed brief with winged haste
to the lord marshal, this to my cousin Scroop,
and all the rest to whom they are directed.
If you knew how much they do to import,
you would make haste.
My good lord, I do guess their tenor.
Like enough you do.
Tomorrow, good Sir Michael, is a day
wherein the fortune of ten thousand men
must bide the touch.
For, sir, at Shrewsbury,
as I am truly given to understand,
the king, with mighty and quick-raised power,
meets with Lord Harry.
And, I fear, Sir Michael,
what with the sickness of Northumberland,
whose power was in the first proportion,
and what with Owen Glendower's absence thence,
who with them was a rated sinew too
and comes not in, o'er-ruled by prophecies,
I fear the power of Percy is too weak
to wage an instant trial with the king.
Doubt not, my lord; they shall be well opposed.
I hope no less.
Yet needful 'tis to fear.
And, to prevent the worst, Sir Michael, speed,
for if Lord Percy thrive not, ere the king dismiss his power,
he means to visit us,
for he hath heard of our confederacy,
and 'tis but wisdom to make strong against him.
Therefore, make haste.
I must go write again to other friends.
So farewell, Sir Michael.